docs - expanding description of LDAP features (#19272)
metabase/metabase: docs/administration-guide/10-single-sign-on.md

###  Enabling account creation with Google Sign-In

If you’ve added your Google client ID to your Metabase settings, you can also let users sign up on their own without creating accounts for them.

To enable this, go to the Google Sign-In configuration page, and specify the email domain you want to allow. For example, if you work at WidgetCo you could enter `widgetco.com` in the field to let anyone with a company email sign up on their own.

Note that Metabase accounts created with Google Sign-In do not have passwords and must use Google to sign in to Metabase.

## Enabling LDAP authentication

If your organization uses LDAP, enabling it in Metabase will allow your users to log in via their LDAP credentials.

> To get started, click the **Configure** button in the LDAP section of the Admin Panel's Authentication page, where you'll fill out the form with the information about your LDAP server — hostname, port, security settings, and the LDAP admin username and password — and save your changes.

Author: Was trying to make the wording here vague enough that it could be applied to either the page’s current or future UI, but I’ll remove the backport tag so 42 onward only, yes?

> To get started, click the **Configure** button in the LDAP section of the Admin Panel's Authentication page, where you'll fill out the form with the information about your LDAP server — hostname, port, security settings, and the LDAP admin username and password — and save your changes.

Reviewer: I think my only concern with backporting is that currently, it's an important step to click the toggle at the top of the form to enable LDAP prior to saving. Otherwise the LDAP settings will not be validated, and it won't actually be enabled. So we should keep that callout on line 38 in the docs until the 42 release.

Metabase will pull out three main attributes from your LDAP directory - email (defaulting to the `mail` attribute), first name (defaulting to the `givenName` attribute), and last name (defaulting to the `sn` attribute). If your LDAP setup uses other attributes for these, you can edit this under the "Attributes" portion of the form.

![Attributes](./images/ldap-attributes.png)

> Your LDAP directory must have the email field populated for each entry that will become a Metabase user, otherwise Metabase won't be able to create the account, nor will that person be able to log in. If either name field is missing, Metabase will use a default of "Unknown," and the name can be changed manually in the person's account settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your LDAP directory must have the email field populated for each entry that will become a Metabase user, otherwise Metabase won't be able to create the account, nor will that person be able to log in. If either name field is missing, Metabase will use a default of "Unknown," and the person can change their name in their [account settings](../users-guide/account-settings.md).
```
Always be on the lookout for sprinkling in some helpful links.

### LDAP user schema

> The **User Schema** section on this same page is where you can adjust settings related to where and how Metabase looks at your LDAP server to authenticate users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **User Schema** section on this same page is where you can adjust settings related to where and how Metabase connects to your LDAP server to authenticate users.
```

Let's stick with our WidgetCo example from above. If  entries for employees are all stored within an organizational unit in your LDAP server named `People`, you'll want to set the **User search base** field to `ou=People,dc=widgetco,dc=com`. This tells Metabase to begin searching for matching entries at that location within the LDAP server.

> While the grayed-out default **User filter** value works for most LDAP servers, this is where you can set a different command for how Metabase finds and authenticates an LDAP entry upon a person logging in.

Reviewer 2: Can we give an example command?

If you're running [Metabase Pro or Enterprise Edition](https://www.metabase.com/pricing) and using [data sandboxes](../enterprise-guide/data-sandboxes.md), you can utilize existing LDAP [user attributes](../enterprise-guide/data-sandboxes.html#getting-user-attributes) when granting sandboxed access.

### Group mapping

Manually assigning people to [groups](05-setting-permissions.html#groups) in Metabase after they've logged in via SSO can get tedious. Instead, you can take advantage of the groups that already exist in your LDAP directory by enabling [group mappings](/learn/permissions/ldap-auth-access-control.html#group-management). 

> Scroll to **Group Schema** on the same LDAP settings page, and click the toggle to enable group mapping. Selecting **Edit Mapping** will bring up a modal where you can create and edit mappings, specifying which LDAP group corresponds to which user group in your Metabase instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scroll to **Group Schema** on the same LDAP settings page, and click the toggle to enable group mapping. Selecting **Edit Mapping** will bring up a modal where you can create and edit mappings, specifying which LDAP group corresponds to which Metabase group.
```

Shorter, and avoids calling people users.

As you can see below, if you have an **Accounting** group in both your LDAP server and Metabase instance, you'll just need to supply the Distinguished Name from your LDAP server (in the example, it's `cn=Accounting,ou=Groups,dc=widgetco,dc=com`) and select its match from the dropdown of your existing Metabase groups.

![Group Mapping](images/ldap-group-mapping.png)

> Note that updates to group membership based on LDAP mappings will only take effect once a person has logged into Metabase again after the update.

Reviewer: A further clarification here: we'll only update the groups for the user who logs in, not the groups for everyone. 

(Basically, we only fetch data from the LDAP server when absolutely necessary. We can't ever do a full group sync, since we only create users in Metabase once they've logged in the first time.)
